---
layout: post
title: "2022 Goals"
permalink: /blog/2022-goals
tags: post
---

Time for some 2022 goals. But first...

## 2021 Goals Update
Warning: this is brutal.

1. Graduate college - Hah! Somehow I inverted this goal and ended up dropping out of college again. Fun times. I'll probably write a blog post talking about this decision in-depth but for now, just know that I still believe this was the right choice.
2. Hit 20k in savings - Did it! Very briefly. More info in my [2021 Retrospective post](/blog/2021-retrospective).
3. Journal daily - Nope. I didn't feel like this was helping me as much as causing stress. I might try it out again in 2022 but it won't be a set goal.

## 2022 Goals

### Hit 20k in savings (again)
Probably the most sensible goal for 2022. I need to build back my savings in order to have an emergency fund and quickly pay off my debts (auto and student loans). As of 12/31 I'm at `$3,689.63`. So that leaves `$16,310.37` to be saved.

### Develop and keep a consistent workout routine
I have a gym membership and can also workout at home if needed. The main issue is being consistent. To that end, I'm going to try and workout at least 3x/week this year.

### Become fluent in Russian
I'm a native Russian speaker but have gradually lost much of my speaking ability through years of English school. My reading and writing are even worse. I want to re-learn the language to have it in my back pocket for the future and, more importantly, to better communicate with my family.

## Habits
So, what habits am I trying to build/break in 2022?

| Habit                      | Frequency         |
|----------------------------|-------------------|
| Read >= 1 page             | 1x / day          |
| Molding Mobility stretches | 1x / day          |
| Cardio for >= 5 minutes    | 1x / day          |
| Study Russain              | 1x / day          |
| Don't order food           | N/A               |
| No nicotine                | N/A               |

A few notes:

- Reading at least one page and doing at least 5 minutes of cardio might seem like ridiculously easy things but the aim here isn't to read a book a week or run a marathon -- it's just to build those habits up. Eventually, I'll increase those numbers.
- Ordering food is a big money sink for me so that's one habit I'm hoping to break. It'll make my savings goal much easier.
- Smoking/vaping socially was an unfortunate byproduct of going out more in the past year. I'm hoping to curb that habit both for health and financial reasons.
